I mentioned before that GitHub is a company,
a company that helps with storing code in the cloud.
But to better understand how GitHub helps with that,
it's important to realize
that the company's name GitHub includes the word Git.
And Git is actually a standalone independent tool
and it's important to understand what Git is
to better understand what GitHub is all about.
So what is Git?
Git is a free version control system tool
and it is a tool you can download
and install on your machine no matter
if it's a Windows or macOS or a Linux machine.
And with that Git tool, you can manage source code changes
of an application you might be writing
or of a website you might be working on.
Any source code,
no matter which programming language is used
or which kind of application is being built,
any source code can be managed with Git.
Now Git helps with managing your source code
but, for example, allowing you to create snapshots,
so-called commits, of that source code
at any point in time you want to create a snapshot.
You can also work on multiple versions of the same package
or app or website or whatever simultaneously
with help of a feature called branches.
And you can easily switch between different branches
and snapshots by checking them out.
And these are all terms you will frequently hear
in conjunction with Git.
Now if this all does not tell you anything,
then the next course section is for you
because that next course section
is a Git and GitHub crash course section
which teaches you the key fundamentals
you must know about Git and GitHub
in order to get the most out of this course.
If you already do know all these Git and GitHub fundamentals
you can of course skip that next course section.
So the idea behind Git is that you can use it
to control your source code
and, for example, easily roll back to older code snapshots
if you messed something up,
or develop new features simultaneously
with your existing code without breaking that existing code
which might currently be powering your active website.
And you will see these things and Git in action
in that crash course course section I just mentioned.
So that's Git.
What is GitHub then?
GitHub is a company,
and it is a company that offers cloud Git repositories
and services related to that code
which you're managing in the cloud.
Now, a repository is simply a bucket,
a space that contains your code.
And when using Git, you have local code repositories.
Any project that's managed with Git
is called a repository.
When using GitHub,
you can also create such repositories in the cloud
and you can connect such a cloud repository
that you created with GitHub to your local repository
and then push changes to that cloud repository
or download them from that repository.
And the idea simply is that if you,
for example, lose your local machine,
if it crashes and can't be restored,
you don't lose your code.
Or if you're switching to a different device
you can download the code from this cloud repository
and continue your work on it.
Now with GitHub,
you can create public and private repositories
and you can also manage who has access
to these repositories, who can change the code and so on.
But it's not just about storing code.
GitHub also offers features related
to code management and collaborative development.
It offers features called issues
or projects or pull requests,
which you will see in action
in that crash course section I mentioned before,
but which are in the end about tracking bugs,
reporting bugs to code maintainers,
organizing code projects, suggesting changes,
and many other things.
so GitHub is not just about storing code in the cloud,
it's also about developing code together with others
in the cloud with help of tools provided by GitHub.
And last but not least,
GitHub also offers automation services like GitHub Actions
which, of course, is the focus of this course
that help you automate repository
and code related processes.
So that's GitHub, that's Git, and most importantly,
that's what GitHub Actions is.
GitHub Actions is that service provided by GitHub
that enables you to automate code
or code and repository management related processes,
and workflows.